So let's dive into the three most popular frameworks or libraries in the case of React, which allow us to
build single page applications
and let's see how we can turn this single page application into a progressive web app for the different
libraries or frameworks.
You'll see it isn't that difficult thankfully,
let's start with React. For this I'll use create react app which is the recommended way of creating
a new React application if it should be a single page application. You see the required commands here,
first of all you need to install create react app globally with the -g flag on your system.
Now you already should have npm otherwise this course wouldn't work for you,
so just execute this command in your terminal or command prompt to install create react app.
Once this is done, we can execute the following commands together.
Make sure to either create a new folder as I did here and I already am in the folder where I want to
create this app or go into the folder where you want to create a new app in a subfolder.
You can then execute create react app, since we install it globally,
this should be available and then the name of the app if you want to use a new folder,
otherwise use a dot and it will use the existing folder.
So I'll use that since I want to create
the app in that folder.
Now with that, it will set this project up for me, install all the dependencies using yarn here which
I have available but it will use npm if you don't have that, no worries.
So the set up finished for me here and this fills the folder with a lot of new files and folders.
Now this folder structure you see here is the default create react app structure.
Now this course is of course not about teaching you React or this structure,
if that's totally new to you, first you should learn React,
then you should learn how to turn it into a progressive web app.
What does turn it into a progressive web app mean anyways?
Consider the things we learn in this course, in its most basic form, it probably means that we have a
manifest.json
file which allows us to make our app installable on home screens and that we have a service
worker which also does some caching, at least precaching of our static assets,
that already is a progressive web app,
we provide some offline capabilities and we also provide installability.
The cool thing is create react app gives us all that out of the box.
You see the register service worker file here,
now it looks really complex,
in the end it just takes care for you running this in production and development and it only
asks the service worker in production
but in the end what it does is it installs a service-worker.js file which it also creates for
you. In the public folder,
you also see a manifest.json file. There
you see we have a basic set up with only one icon but that's enough for a very basic application,
short name and name, theme color, background color and you have an index.html file where we also set up the
theme color.
Now you could add the Safari properties here,
you could add the Internet Explorer properties here and you can fine tune this manifest.json
file to your needs,
for example by changing your title here and adding more icons, all the things you've learned about
the app manifest in the app manifest module.
Now that is already a progressive web app,
the one thing we can't see is the service worker.
I said it's getting generated for us and it does but we can't easily access the code like that because
the configuration of this workflow is hidden to us by default.
You can eject this project though, by running npm run eject using this script.
This gives you access to the underlying build workflow set up but it's a one-way process, you can't
go back, if you ever want to go back to the world of
I don't see the set up, you would have to create a new project with create react app.
Now if I do run this here, I get asked if I'm sure because it's a one-way process so I'll tick y and it basically
tells me that this is not possible because I have a git repository and I'm not tracking on any of these
files.
So I'll quickly do this and after doing this, if I repeat this eject command and answer with y again,
now it's successfully ejected
and now you see we have more folders, for example the config folder which holds the webpack configuration
because create react app uses webpack.
Now if we dive into that configuration, you can customize everything you want but you should know what
you're doing before you do that.
The interesting part is towards the bottom of that file and everything is highlighted here as invalid
since my Javascript version is still set to ES5, so
let me quickly switch that,
so now I switch to ES6 and this looks way better
and here this SWPrecacheWebpackPlugin gets used.
Now this is not using workbox, the tool we used before,
it's the predecessor of workbox.
So SWPrecache is the older tool, therefore more stable but also limited in features.
This setup here basically generates this service-worker.js file which gets registered automatically
by the register service worker file
and there it does
one important thing, it registers all files to be precached you generate in this project.
So your bundled Javascript files, your CSS code, all of that gets precached. Let's see it in action by
simply running npm run build,
this will use this build tool here,
this build command which in the end just does that, it builds our project for production.
So if we run this command, it will basically bundle this React app together about which I haven't changed
anything,
it will generate this service worker and it will register it and use this manifest.json file we already
have.
So once this is finished, we will actually have a project which already is a progressive web app and where
we then of course can add other features, like accessing the camera.
Now what I want to do is, I want to see that in action and here it suggests what we can do.
Now if you don't have yarn, it should show the npm command,
you can run npm install -g serve,
that's a HTTP server, like HTTP server used in the project but one we
can still look globally and then easily run any folder with it. I'll run sudo in front of it
otherwise it will fail on my machine, so I'll quickly
enter my password and this will now install the server on my machine which I need to simply simulate
this build project.
We have the finished project here in the build folder,
this is what you would deploy onto a server and since I don't want to deploy it right now,
I'll install this serve package to just simulate this and run my own local testing server on my machine.
And again this of course does not replace you deploying it,
it's just there to test it. We can already see that
here we have a service worker though populated with code generated by the plugin, the
SWPrecachePlugin
and you also see with the manifest.json file.
So let's now run serve -s build,
so basically serve the content in the build folder
and it should spin up this development server and give us the URL at which we can visit it.
So let's copy that URL and go to that page, I'll simply load it here.
Now if we do that, you increase this, we should see that we now have an application which should also
work if I turn this to offline because we precached everything about it and it does work offline.
We also see if we inspect the manifest that it is recognized, that we have
an icon so that this is also working.
So we got a valid progressive web app out of the box with create react app and the key takeaway for
you is that you can eject the configuration to hook into it, to change it and to configure this SWPrecachePlugin
to your needs.
And of course that includes you possibly commenting it out and using the workbox, webpack plugin
instead if you want to switch to workbox, you can configure everything you want.
Of course this is kind of advanced, you need to know what you're doing here
but the key takeaway is it's easy to turn this application into a progressive web app
and one other key takeaway is the code you write, the features you use doesn't change.
This is a single page application,
so what? If you wanted to use the camera,
you would simply do this in your React components,
you would still use the same features I showed you in this course.
The things you add in your service worker file if you for example switch to workbox and build up on
your own base file,
you use the same code, you use the same event listeners,
it's the same.
And with that, I hope it's a bit clearer how single page applications are related to progressive web
apps and how you can turn your React application built with create react app into a progressive web app.